---
title: "Oregairu"
date: "2019-7-30"
summary: "Cynical mind, in high school attire"
---
My Teen Romantic Comedy SNAFU is a high school club room comedy anime. Despite the title, it is not a harem anime; the main character only deals with a love triangle. Originally this series just appeared to be a discount Monogatari series (guy helps girls with their problems, but less interesting here since there are no supernatural elements), but it found its own footing in the second season. It became a lot more than just a typical club room comedy. To be fair, being discount Monogatari isn’t even a bad thing. While the show really shines in its second season, it’s not a slog to get through the first.

SNAFU has a pretty simple story. The main character, Hachiman Hikigaya, is forced to enter the school’s service club, a club that helps out students that come to them. The club only has one other member in the beginning, Yukino Yukinoshita, but eventually they are joined by Yui Yuigahama (even their names sound like NISIOISIN characters). The show takes an episodic approach to things from here (so there’s not much to talk about in terms of story), and in the first season the longest an arc gets is two episodes.

Being an episodic show, the quality of each episode can vary. Some are more comedic focused, while others have a more serious tone. Generally the first season focuses on comedy, while the second season focuses on drama, but the show never completely drops either aspect. The second season has longer more serious arcs that carry a lot of weight for each character, and it’s where the show’s themes really hit hard.

The story isn’t really the focus of the show though. It’s on the characters. The individual stories provide the perfect chance for the characters to interact and grow. In particular, the main characters and a character introduced in the second season (who will be talked about in the spoiler section) are all very strong, while the side characters are mainly there for the main characters to have something to do, and make it seem like there are other people at the school.

There really are a lot of side characters. Most of them have very little personality, and if they get an episode focused on them, they only develop in that episode, there are no lasting, visible impacts on them. This might be a side effect of how much screen time they get, but it’s still a problem. With the exception of Hayato Hayama, and Rumi Tsurumi (seriously, there’s no way the author of the original light novels wasn’t inspired by NISIOISIN when it comes to naming characters) the side characters fall flat. Rumi is a grade schooler  who gets two whole episodes dedicated to her in the first season and Hayama is one of the “popular” high school students. The worst are Saika Totsuka and Yoshiteru Zaimokuza, who are walking stereotypes, a trap and a chunni, respectively.

Luckily, the main characters are all strong, and the focus of SNAFU. Hachiman, Yukino, and Yui all have distinct personalities that mesh well with each other well. Hachiman is cynical and slightly depressed, Yukino is quiet, and reserved, and Yui is upbeat and cheery. They have a small amount of backdrop that connects them together, which is used for drama throughout the series. The characters do have arcs but as of the writing of this review, have yet to fully develop. There is some character development, but the major parts of their arcs haven’t played out yet. More on this later. The main characters also each have a driving ideology, that the show explores. The genius thing: the ideologies of the characters are not the ideologies the show goes for. Hachiman’s solutions to each problem may be unique and fun to watch, but the anime is not promoting the ideology the solutions bring up. Even Yukino’s and Yui’s ideals are not exactly what the show is going for. It criticizes each character’s philosophy, and makes its own, different from any character in the show.
The art and animation for SNAFU is above average. It’s nothing special, and at some points can look bad (looking at you, beginning of season 2 and your weird rotoscope recap). The style is not too distinct, and the two seasons do have a slightly different look from each other, which makes the different tones more noticeable. There wasn’t any CGI that stood out as annoying, either. There’s not a lot of actual animation, it’s mostly stills and pans while a character fidgets, but their doesn’t need to be a lot of animation. It’s really no less animation than any typical comedy, and it’s not that important that things are moving all the time in a show like this. The character art is pretty good too, with most characters having a distinct look. Special mention goes to Hachiman’s “dead fish eyes.” The backgrounds aren’t anything too special though since they are just normal looking school and city backdrops.

The sound is really great. The seiyuu all do a good job of bringing life to their roles. The voices for the main characters are of course the most stand out since they get the most speaking roles, but the whole cast did a great job. In fact, Zaimozuka is likable because his voice actor is so into the role. The soundtrack is pretty good overall, too. The second season has a lot more memorable tunes, but both season use the music to great effect. No complaints here.

The opening and ending themes contain memorable music, but okay visuals. The disconnect isn’t enough to hype up the show, but it is enough that it will bring back memories of the show’s best moments. Just hearing the opening again will be enough.